#Findings of Competitor Evaluation

After carefully evaluating a number of competitor applications and websites (HiMama, Daily Sheets, ClassDojo and Tadpoles), we realized that most of them are providing similar services to the application we intend to build: easier and more efficient communication between parents and daycare workers, allowing people to know about upcoming events, etc. through text, picture and/or video updates.

They also automate some of the time consuming-tasks daycare workers need to do, such as writing reports or sending feedback to parents. In addition, parents can create a journal for their kids to store their photos (like a photo album) and interesting daily stories.

Although they were quite similar to the product we propose, we determined through reading user reviews of the applications, there are still features missing in these solutions that parents would like to have, particularly capability to receive longer video updates, and calendar integration for event and deadline reminders. 

Also, there is a feature some parents did not like that we will not include in our app. For example, ClassDojo has a scoring system for students where students are rewarded for good behaviour with points and punished for bad behviour with deduction of points. The scores of each student in the class are accessible by everyone in the class. Although students with high scores will benefit from being recognized, students with low scores are subjected to unnecessary competition and will feel self-conscious about their class standing being publicized.

Some apps had an excessive number of features, some of which may be seen as extra work or even an annoyance to users. For example, Tadpoles has interfaces for 3 types of users: teachers, parents and directors. Teachers and parents have the expected features of being able to send or recieve photos, notifications, plan or organize information etc., but the interface for directors seems unnecessary. Directors have the ability to manage classrooms, teachers, children and guardians as well as moderate and approve of content being uploaded by teachers before being sent out to guardians. Although it may be useful to have somebody that can manage all of this, it does take a lot of time and effort for a 'director'. Our goal is to create a product that can make the jobs of teachers and parents easier, and so although we aim to have our application provide a variety of functions, we also want to keep the amount of work minimal for users. 
